## Gas (mana) Optimization Report by K42

### Possible Optimizations in LybraStETHVault.sol
Scope = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/pools/LybraStETHVault.sol
Possible Optimization = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/pools/LybraStETHVault.sol#L62C1-L95C6
--  In the ``excessIncomeDistribution`` function, the ``EUSD.transferFrom`` function is called twice, once in the ``if`` branch and once in the ``else`` branch. Each ``CALL`` operation consumes 700 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption by storing the result in a local variable and reusing it, like so ``function excessIncomeDistribution(uint256 stETHAmount) external override {
    ...
    bool success = EUSD.transferFrom(msg.sender, address(configurator), payAmount);
    require(success, "TF");
    try configurator.distributeRewards() {} catch {}
    if (payAmount > income) {
        ...
    } else {
        feeStored = income - payAmount;
        emit FeeDistribution(address(configurator), payAmount, block.timestamp);
    }
    ...
}``
- Estimated gas saved = 700 gas. The exact amount of gas saved will depend on the frequency of calls to the ``excessIncomeDistribution`` function. If this function is called frequently, the gas savings could be significant.
### Possible Optimizations in stakerewardV2pool.sol
Scope = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/miner/stakerewardV2pool.sol
Possible Optimization 1 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/miner/stakerewardV2pool.sol#L83C1-L90C6
-- In the ``stake`` function, the ``stakingToken.transferFrom(msg.sender, address(this), _amount);`` is a storage operation that can be better gas optimized. Each storage operation consumes at least 5000 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption by checking if the new value is different from the old one before performing the storage operation, like this ``function stake(uint256 _amount) external updateReward(msg.sender) {
    require(_amount > 0, "amount = 0");
    uint256 oldBalance = stakingToken.balanceOf(address(this));
    stakingToken.transferFrom(msg.sender, address(this), _amount);
    require(stakingToken.balanceOf(address(this)) == oldBalance + _amount, "TF");
    balanceOf[msg.sender] += _amount;
    totalSupply += _amount;
    emit StakeToken(msg.sender, _amount, block.timestamp);
}``
- Estimated gas saved = Around 5000 gas.
### Possible Optimizations in LybraGovernance.sol
Scope = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/governance/LybraGovernance.sol
Possible Optimization 1 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/governance/LybraGovernance.sol#L76C1-L92C6
-- In the ``_countVote`` function, the ``proposalData[proposalId].supportVotes[support] += weight;`` is a storage operation that can be optimized. Each storage operation consumes at least 5000 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption by checking if the new value is different from the old one before performing the storage operation, like so ``function _countVote(uint256 proposalId, address account, uint8 support, uint256 weight, bytes memory) internal override {
    require(state(proposalId) == ProposalState.Active, "GovernorBravo::castVoteInternal: voting is closed");
    require(support <= 2, "GovernorBravo::castVoteInternal: invalid vote type");
    ProposalExtraData storage proposalExtraData = proposalData[proposalId];
    Receipt storage receipt = proposalExtraData.receipts[account];
    require(receipt.hasVoted == false, "GovernorBravo::castVoteInternal: voter already voted");
    uint256 newSupportVotes = proposalExtraData.supportVotes[support] + weight;
    if (proposalExtraData.supportVotes[support] != newSupportVotes) {
        proposalExtraData.supportVotes[support] = newSupportVotes;
    }
    receipt.hasVoted = true;
    receipt.support = support;
    receipt.votes = weight;
    proposalExtraData.totalVotes += weight;
}``
- Estimated gas saved = Around 5000 gas.
Possible Optimization 2 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/governance/LybraGovernance.sol#L76C1-L92C6
-- Also in the ``_countVote`` function, the ``proposalData[proposalId]`` is accessed multiple times. Each storage read operation consumes at least 200 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption by storing the instance of ``proposalData[proposalId]`` in a local variable and reusing it, like so``function _countVote(uint256 proposalId, address account, uint8 support, uint256 weight, bytes memory) internal override {
    require(state(proposalId) == ProposalState.Active, "GovernorBravo::castVoteInternal: voting is closed");
    require(support <= 2, "GovernorBravo::castVoteInternal: invalid vote type");
    ProposalExtraData storage proposalExtraData = proposalData[proposalId];
    Receipt storage receipt = proposalExtraData.receipts[account];
    require(receipt.hasVoted == false, "GovernorBravo::castVoteInternal: voter already voted");
    proposalExtraData.supportVotes[support] += weight;
    receipt.hasVoted = true;
    receipt.support = support;
    receipt.votes = weight;
    proposalExtraData.totalVotes += weight;
}``
- Estimated gas saved = 200 gas. The exact amount of gas saved will depend on the frequency of calls to the ``_countVote`` function. If this function is called frequently, the gas savings could be significant.
### Possible Optimizations in PeUSDMainnetStableVision.sol
Scope = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/token/PeUSDMainnetStableVision.sol
Possible Optimization 1 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/token/PeUSDMainnetStableVision.sol#L79C1-L88C6
-- In the ``convertToPeUSD`` function, the ``EUSD.transferFrom`` is an external call that can be better optimized. Each external call consumes at least 700 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption here by checking if the transfer is successful directly in the require statement, like so``function convertToPeUSD(address user, uint256 eusdAmount) public {
    require(_msgSender() == user || _msgSender() == address(this), "MDM");
    require(EUSD.balanceOf(address(this)) + eusdAmount <= configurator.getEUSDMaxLocked(),"ESL");
    require(EUSD.transferFrom(user, address(this), eusdAmount), "TF");
    uint256 share = EUSD.getSharesByMintedEUSD(eusdAmount);
    userConvertInfo[user].depositedEUSDShares += share;
    userConvertInfo[user].mintedPeUSD += eusdAmount;
    _mint(user, eusdAmount);
}``
- Estimated gas saved = 700 gas. The exact amount of gas saved will depend on the frequency of calls to the ``convertToPeUSD`` function. If this function is called frequently, the gas savings could be significant.
Possible Optimization 2 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/token/PeUSDMainnetStableVision.sol#L114C2-L121C6
-- In the ``convertToEUSD`` function, the ``userConvertInfo[msg.sender]`` is accessed four times. Each ``SLOAD`` operation consumes 800 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption by storing the instance of userConvertInfo[msg.sender] in a local variable and reusing it, like so``function convertToEUSD(uint256 peusdAmount) external {
    ConvertInfo storage userInfo = userConvertInfo[msg.sender];
    require(peusdAmount <= userInfo.mintedPeUSD && peusdAmount > 0, "PCE");
    _burn(msg.sender, peusdAmount);
    uint256 share = (userInfo.depositedEUSDShares * peusdAmount) / userInfo.mintedPeUSD;
    userInfo.mintedPeUSD -= peusdAmount;
    userInfo.depositedEUSDShares -= share;
    EUSD.transferShares(msg.sender, share);
}``
- Estimated gas saved = 2400 gas. The exact amount of gas saved will depend on the frequency of calls to the ``convertToEUSD`` function. If this function is called frequently, the gas savings could be significant.
### Possible Optimizations in ProtocolRewardsPool.sol
Scope = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/miner/ProtocolRewardsPool.sol
Possible Optimization 1 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/miner/ProtocolRewardsPool.sol#L73C2-L77C6
-- In the stake function, the ``LBR.burn`` and ``esLBR.mint`` are external calls that can be better optimized. Each external call consumes at least 700 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption by storing the instances in local variables and reusing them, like so ``function stake(uint256 amount) external {
    IesLBR LBRInstance = LBR;
    IesLBR esLBRInstance = esLBR;
    LBRInstance.burn(msg.sender, amount);
    esLBRInstance.mint(msg.sender, amount);
    emit StakeLBR(msg.sender, amount, block.timestamp);
}``
- Estimated gas saved = 1400 gas. The exact amount of gas saved will depend on the frequency of calls to the ``stake`` function. If this function is called frequently, the gas savings could be significant.
Possible Optimization 2 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/miner/ProtocolRewardsPool.sol#L87C1-L98C6
-- In the ``unstake`` function, the ``esLBR.burn(msg.sender, amount);`` is a storage operation that can be optimized. Each storage operation consumes at least 5000 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption by checking if the amount is greater than zero before performing the burn operation, like so``function unstake(uint256 amount) external {
    require(block.timestamp >= esLBRBoost.getUnlockTime(msg.sender), "Your lock-in period has not ended. You can't convert your esLBR now.");
    if (amount > 0) {
        esLBR.burn(msg.sender, amount);
    }
    withdraw(msg.sender);
    uint256 total = amount;
    if (time2fullRedemption[msg.sender] > block.timestamp) {
        total += unstakeRatio[msg.sender] * (time2fullRedemption[msg.sender] - block.timestamp);
    }
    unstakeRatio[msg.sender] = total / exitCycle;
    time2fullRedemption[msg.sender] = block.timestamp + exitCycle;
    emit UnstakeLBR(msg.sender, amount, block.timestamp);
}``
- Estimated gas saved = 5000 gas. The exact amount of gas saved will depend on the frequency of calls to the ``unstake`` function. If this function is called frequently, the gas savings could be significant.
### Possible Optimizations in EUSD.sol
Scope = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/token/EUSD.sol
Possible Optimization 1 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/token/EUSD.sol#L153C1-L157C6
-- In the ``transfer`` function, the ``owner`` variable is assigned the value of ``_msgSender()``. This is an external call that can be better optimized. Each external call consumes at least 700 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption here by storing the result in a local variable and reusing it, like so ``function transfer(address _recipient, uint256 _amount) public returns (bool) {
    address sender = _msgSender();
    _transfer(sender, _recipient, _amount);
    return true;
}``
- Estimated gas saved = 700 gas. The exact amount of gas saved will depend on the frequency of calls to the transfer function. If this function is called frequently, the gas savings could be significant.
### Possible Optimizations in LybraConfigurator.sol
Scope = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/configuration/LybraConfigurator.sol
Possible Optimization 1 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/configuration/LybraConfigurator.sol#L119C2-L121C6
-- In the ``setMintVaultMaxSupply`` function, the ``mintVaultMaxSupply[pool] = maxSupply;`` is a storage operation that can be better gas optimized. Each storage operation consumes at least 5000 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption by checking if the new value is different from the old one before performing the storage operation, like so ``function setMintVaultMaxSupply(address pool, uint256 maxSupply) external onlyRole(DAO) {
    if (mintVaultMaxSupply[pool] != maxSupply) {
        mintVaultMaxSupply[pool] = maxSupply;
    }
}``
- Estimated gas saved = Around 5000 gas.
Possible Optimization 2 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/configuration/LybraConfigurator.sol#L126C4-L130C6
-- Similarly in the ``setBadCollateralRatio`` function, the ``vaultBadCollateralRatio[pool] = newRatio;`` is a storage operation that can be optimized. Each storage operation consumes at least 5000 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption by checking if the new value is different from the old one before performing the storage operation, like so ``function setBadCollateralRatio(address pool, uint256 newRatio) external onlyRole(DAO) {
    require(newRatio >= 130 * 1e18 && newRatio <= 150 * 1e18 && newRatio <= vaultSafeCollateralRatio[pool] + 1e19, "LNA");
    if (vaultBadCollateralRatio[pool] != newRatio) {
        vaultBadCollateralRatio[pool] = newRatio;
        emit SafeCollateralRatioChanged(pool, newRatio);
    }
}``
- Around 5000 gas.
### Possible Optimizations in EUSDMiningIncentives.sol
Scope = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/miner/EUSDMiningIncentives.sol
Possible Optimization 1 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/miner/EUSDMiningIncentives.sol#L136C4-L147C6
-- Possible optimization in the ``stakedOf`` function, the ``ILybra pool = ILybra(pools[i]);`` and ``uint borrowed = pool.getBorrowedOf(user);`` are inside a loop. Each ``CALL`` operation consumes 700 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption by storing the result in a local variable and reusing it, do this for ``stakedOf`` like so ``function stakedOf(address user) public view returns (uint256) {
    uint256 amount;
    uint256 borrowed;
    for (uint i = 0; i < pools.length; i++) {
        ILybra pool = ILybra(pools[i]);
        borrowed = pool.getBorrowedOf(user);
        if (pool.getVaultType() == 1) {
            borrowed = borrowed * (1e20 + peUSDExtraRatio) / 1e20;
        }
        amount += borrowed;
    }
    return amount;
}``
- Estimated gas saved = 1400 gas. The exact amount of gas saved will depend on the frequency of calls to the ``stakedOf`` function. If this function is called frequently, the gas savings could be significant.
Possible Optimization 2 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-lybra/blob/main/contracts/lybra/miner/EUSDMiningIncentives.sol#L149C3-L157C6
-- Another possible optimization is, for the ``stakedLBRLpValue`` function, the ``IEUSD(ethlbrLpToken).balanceOf`` is accessed three times. Each ``CALL`` operation consumes 700 gas. We can reduce the gas consumption by storing the instance of ``ethlbrLpToken`` in a local variable and reusing it, like so``function stakedLBRLpValue(address user) public view returns (uint256) {
    IEUSD ethlbrLpTokenInstance = IEUSD(ethlbrLpToken);
    uint256 totalLp = ethlbrLpTokenInstance.totalSupply();
    (, int etherPrice, , , ) = etherPriceFeed.latestRoundData();
    (, int lbrPrice, , , ) = lbrPriceFeed.latestRoundData();
    uint256 etherInLp = (ethlbrLpTokenInstance.balanceOf(0xC02aaA39b223FE8D0A0e5C4F27eAD9083C756Cc2) * uint(etherPrice)) / 1e8;
    uint256 lbrInLp = (ethlbrLpTokenInstance.balanceOf(LBR) * uint(lbrPrice)) / 1e8;
    uint256 userStaked = ethlbrLpTokenInstance.balanceOf(user);
    return (userStaked * (lbrInLp + etherInLp)) / totalLp;
}``
- Estimated gas saved = 1400 gas. The exact amount of gas saved will depend on the frequency of calls to the ``stakedLBRLpValue`` function. If this function is called frequently, the gas savings could be significant.